
Describe your proposed project: what are your goals, who will be involved, and what will be the artistic outcome?
This project will be to host a multi-discipline music composition workshop and recording session that will draw on the talents of local musicians, composers, audio technicians and artists. The event will be open to the public and split into three different workshops that will be offered in two blocks over the course of one day. Participants will have the opportunity to be involved in live group improvisation, songwriting and arranging, and music technology production skills. Throughout the event there will be various stages that will be recorded which will then be compiled into an album. The rough mix of the album will be presented at the close of the event and later officially released.
I have three primary goals for this project. First is to promote a strong sense of community through collaboration. By involving musicians, composers, audio engineers and producers I want to encourage people to forge connections that they may not have had the opportunity to make otherwise. The second goal is to offer an opportunity for artists to apply their skills in new ways and to develop new skills by being involved with the process of recording an album from start to finish. By providing a chance for people of various musical disciplines to work together in a new context each will gain experience that will be beneficial for his or her own work. The third goal is to showcase the musical talents and creativity of local musicians by sharing the end product of this event with the public. My intent is to release the album that is recorded free to residents of Burlington in electronic format.
This event will be open to all local musicians, composers and audio technicians. There will be no charge to participate. The planning and coordinating of the event will primarily be done by myself and Gahlord Dewald. There will also be a need of additional support on the day of the event from volunteers to help with general hosting duties. Lastly, any artwork used in promotion for the event and the release of the resulting album will be done by area artists.

Describe the impact this project will have on the Burlington community and who it will benefit the most.
By bringing together artists from a diverse set of disciplines my intention is provide participants an opportunity to network with other artists that they may not otherwise have the chance to work with. This enhances our community by encouraging further collaborations and by expanding the creative influences artists are exposed to. Through this event composers will have the opportunity to work with a broader pallet of musicians than they may normally have access to. In turn the musicians will be able to work on pieces that were written by people from within our community and to directly interact with the composers. Both musicians and composers will then be able to work with audio technicians in translating their vision for their art into a recording to share with others.
Through these interactions artists will be able to apply skills that they already have, learn about the skills used in other disciplines and to develop new skills by being presented with unique challenges. This inspires artists to expand their work in directions they may not have previously considered and enriches the culture of our greater community.

How will this project connect people from different communities or disciplines?
The focus of this project is to bring together artists to work toward a common goal while at the same time learning about the various disciplines required to reach that goal. Sometimes creating a compelling piece of art requires the work of many people and it's important that there is an understanding of the different roles involved in that process.
By making this event open to the public we hope to encourage a wide range of musicians, composers and audio technicians who will be able to share their experience in a practical way as well as learn from the experiences of others. In any field networking is an important aspect of growing in that field. Through this project artists can find a means of making connections and expanding their professional network to people outside of their particular discipline.
Through the distribution of the album that results from this project we can share the creative expression of local musicians with the broader community.   
Describe the public presentation you envision for this project.  Include the venue and its accessibility features.
While the event itself is open to all local musicians, audio engineers, and volunteers it is still very important to share the product of this public collaboration with the broader Burlington community. To bring this project to a wider audience within Burlington we will be offering the resulting album to residents of Burlington and the surrounding areas for free via digital download. We also intend to tell the story of the project through writing, photos and video compiled from the day of the event.
Currently we are seeking a venue that would best accommodate this project, is handicap accessible and works within our budget.

How will you publicize your project?
Our plan to promote this project will be through a combination of local print, radio and the web. Seven Days, Burlington Free Press, North Avenue News and Hometown would be our primary sources for print. For radio we would focus on WRUV (90.1fm), the Radiator (105.9), and VPR (107.9). Through networking with other musicians and music organizations within Burlington such as Big Heavy World and Soundtoys we hope to draw a diverse group of artists from a variety of backgrounds and disciplines.
Describe a past project that you considered successful and explain why.
Recently I was involved with coordinating the recording and production of an album by a group of musicians with disparate musical backgrounds who recorded under the name Water on Mars. The musicians are mostly from the Burlington area with the exception of the drummer who at the time lived in Milwaukee, WI and now lives in Portland Oregon. The vision for the project was to record a series of live improvisations by musicians of differing styles and later distill and rearrange the music recorded into an album that preserved the spontaneity of the session, but indirectly – more of a collage than a photograph.
My role during the recording of the project was to organize the schedule for the session, assist with the engineering and perform with the group. Following the recording date I then mixed the album and coordinated with mastering engineer during the final stage of production. I was quite satisfied with the outcome for the project and found it successful because we were able to overcome the challenges of creating a coherent album within a limited time window. Further more, I found this to be a success because of the artistic outcome. Through regular communication with the musicians involved and the mastering engineer we were able to arrive a piece of music that we all felt proud of.
